---
tags:
  - Rule
share: true
---


1. **No class/race restrictions & No bonus XP**
	a. As long as the player can come up with a good reason for any strange combo…
	b. Bonus XP modifiers will not be used.

2. **Characters start with max HP**
	a. Add CON +/- modifier. Players will still roll for HP at each level up.

3. **Slot-based inventory system**
	a. Each character has an inventory of 10 slots +STR modifier bonus.
	b. Armor worn and weapons carried do not take up inventory slots.
	c. 100 coins = 1 slot / 1h items = 1 slot / 2h items = 2 slots / light armor = 1 slot / heavy armor = 2 slots / very small items = free carry / other items = referee's discretion.

4. **Magic Users**
	a. Start with: Read Magic, Light.
	b. Casting "Reversed: Darkness" still requires training in the Light spell.
	c. May use staffs regardless of class weapon restrictions.

5. **Fighters**
	a. Cleave: Any time a fighter strikes a killing blow in melee they may immediately roll a free attack against another adjacent enemy within range. This can chain.
	b. May select a combat talent at 1st, 5th, and 10th level from the optional table (C.C. #1 page 28).

6. **Druids**
	a. Start with: Speak With Animals

7. **Thief**
	a. Optional rules from C.C. #1 page 29.

8. **Splintering Shields**
	a. Characters can choose to destroy their shield rather than take the damage on a hit from a weapon or similar physical trap/spell/monster attack.
	b. If a shield is destroyed this way, the character incurs the "Fractured" de-buff.
	c. The "Fractured" de-buff causes characters to suffer a -2 AC and be unable to use their shield arm.
	d. The "Fractured" de-buff is removed when a character has fully rested and their HP returned to full.

9. **Downed, Recover, Wounded, and Character Death**
	a. When reduced to 0HP characters enter a "Downed" state of 1.
	b. "Downed" characters can only perform a "Recover" roll (Save VS Death) on their turn.
	c. Recover Fail = Add 1 stack of "Downed". Recover Success = Character moves to "Wounded" state.
	d. "Wounded" characters are returned to 1HP and are marked with the "Wounded" de-buff. This de-buff can stack.
	e. Healing a "Downed" character will return them to "Wounded" state. The heal restores HP as normal.
	f. The "Wounded" de-buff is removed when a character has fully rested and their HP returned to full.
	g. "Wounded" x3 / "Downed" x4 = instant death. ANY damage vs "Downed" = instant death.
	h. If at any time a character's HP would be reduced by -10 + their character level they are instantly killed.